README.md, before:

# Ansible AUR helper
Ansible module to use some Arch User Repository (AUR) helpers as well as makepkg.

The following helpers are supported and automatically selected, if present, in the order listed below:
- [yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay)
- [pacaur](https://github.com/E5ten/pacaur)
- [trizen](https://github.com/trizen/trizen)
- [pikaur](https://github.com/actionless/pikaur)
- [aurman](https://github.com/polygamma/aurman) (discontinued)

*makepkg* will be used if no helper was found or if it is explicitly specified:
- [makepkg](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/makepkg)

## Options
|Parameter      |Choices/**Default**                                    |Comments|
|---            |---                                                    |---|
|name           |                                                       |Name or list of names of the package(s) to install or upgrade.|
|state          |**present**, latest                                    |Desired state of the package, 'present' skips operations if the package is already installed.|
|upgrade        |yes, **no**                                            |Whether or not to upgrade whole system.|
|use            |**auto**, yay, pacaur, trizen, pikaur, aurman, makepkg |The tool to use, 'auto' uses the first known helper found and makepkg as a fallback.|
|extra_args     |**null**                                               |A list of additional arguments to pass directly to the tool. Cannot be used in 'auto' mode.|
|aur_only       |yes, **no**                                            |Limit helper operation to the AUR.|
|local_pkgbuild |Local directory with PKGBUILD, **null**                |Only valid with makepkg or pikaur. Don't download the package from AUR. Build the package using a local PKGBUILD and the other build files.|
|skip_pgp_check |yes, **no**                                            |Only valid with makepkg. Skip PGP signatures verification of source file, useful when installing packages without GnuPG properly configured.|
|ignore_arch    |yes, **no**                                            |Only valid with makepkg. Ignore a missing or incomplete arch field, useful when the PKGBUILD does not have the arch=('yourarch') field.|

### Note
* Either *name* or *upgrade* is required, both cannot be used together.
* In the *use*=*auto* mode, makepkg is used as a fallback if no known helper is found.

## Installing
### AUR package
The [ansible-aur-git](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/ansible-aur-git) package is available in the AUR.

Note: The module is installed in `/usr/share/ansible/plugins/modules` which is one of the default module library paths.

### Manual installation
Just clone the *ansible-aur* repository into your user custom-module directory:
```
git clone https://github.com/kewlfft/ansible-aur.git ~/.ansible/plugins/modules/aur
```

### Ansible Galaxy
*ansible-aur* is available in Galaxy which is a hub for sharing Ansible content. To download it, use:
```
ansible-galaxy install kewlfft.aur
```

Note: If this module is installed from Ansible Galaxy, you will need to list it explicitly in your playbook:
```
# playbook.yml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
  - kewlfft.aur
  tasks:
  - aur: name=package_name
```

or in your role:
```
# meta/main.yml
dependencies:
- kewlfft.aur
```

```
# tasks/main.yml
- aur: name=package_name
```

## Usage
### Notes
* The scope of this module is installation and update from the AUR; for package removal or for updates from the repositories, it is recommended to use the official *pacman* module.
* The *--needed* parameter of the helper is systematically used, it means if a package is up-to-date, it is not built and reinstalled.

### Create the "aur_builder" user
While Ansible expects to SSH as root, makepkg or AUR helpers do not allow executing operations as root, they fail with "you cannot perform this operation as root". It is therefore recommended to create a user, which is non-root but has no need for password with pacman in sudoers, let's call it *aur_builder*.

This user can be created in an Ansible task with the following actions:
```
- user:
    name: aur_builder
    group: wheel
- lineinfile:
    path: /etc/sudoers.d/11-install-aur_builder
    line: 'aur_builder ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/pacman'
    create: yes
    validate: 'visudo -cf %s'
```

### Examples
Use it in a task, as in the following examples:
```
# Install trizen using makepkg, skip if it is already installed
- aur: name=trizen use=makepkg state=present
  become: yes
  become_user: aur_builder

# Install package_name using the first known helper found
- aur: name=package_name
  become: yes
  become_user: aur_builder

# Install package_name_1 and package_name_2 using yay
- aur:
    use: yay
    name:
      - package_name_1
      - package_name_2

# Upgrade the system using yay, only act on AUR packages.
# Note: Dependency resolving will still include repository packages.
- aur: upgrade=yes use=yay aur_only=yes

# Install gnome-shell-extension-caffeine-git using pikaur and a local PKGBUILD.
# Skip if it is already installed
- aur:
    name: gnome-shell-extension-caffeine-git
    use: pikaur
    local_pkgbuild: {{ role_path }}/files/gnome-shell-extension-caffeine-git
    state: present
  become: yes
  become_user: aur_builder
```

Commit message:

Updated readme.md for paru

README.md, after:

# Ansible AUR helper
Ansible module to use some Arch User Repository (AUR) helpers as well as makepkg.

The following helpers are supported and automatically selected, if present, in the order listed below:
- [paru](https://github.com/Morganamilo/paru)
- [yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay)
- [pacaur](https://github.com/E5ten/pacaur)
- [trizen](https://github.com/trizen/trizen)
- [pikaur](https://github.com/actionless/pikaur)
- [aurman](https://github.com/polygamma/aurman) (discontinued)

*makepkg* will be used if no helper was found or if it is explicitly specified:
- [makepkg](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/makepkg)

## Options
|Parameter      |Choices/**Default**                                    |Comments|
|---            |---                                                    |---|
|name           |                                                       |Name or list of names of the package(s) to install or upgrade.|
|state          |**present**, latest                                    |Desired state of the package, 'present' skips operations if the package is already installed.|
|upgrade        |yes, **no**                                            |Whether or not to upgrade whole system.|
|use            |**auto**, paru, yay, pacaur, trizen, pikaur, aurman, makepkg |The tool to use, 'auto' uses the first known helper found and makepkg as a fallback.|
|extra_args     |**null**                                               |A list of additional arguments to pass directly to the tool. Cannot be used in 'auto' mode.|
|aur_only       |yes, **no**                                            |Limit helper operation to the AUR.|
|local_pkgbuild |Local directory with PKGBUILD, **null**                |Only valid with makepkg or pikaur. Don't download the package from AUR. Build the package using a local PKGBUILD and the other build files.|
|skip_pgp_check |yes, **no**                                            |Only valid with makepkg. Skip PGP signatures verification of source file, useful when installing packages without GnuPG properly configured.|
|ignore_arch    |yes, **no**                                            |Only valid with makepkg. Ignore a missing or incomplete arch field, useful when the PKGBUILD does not have the arch=('yourarch') field.|

### Note
* Either *name* or *upgrade* is required, both cannot be used together.
* In the *use*=*auto* mode, makepkg is used as a fallback if no known helper is found.

## Installing
### AUR package
The [ansible-aur-git](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/ansible-aur-git) package is available in the AUR.

Note: The module is installed in `/usr/share/ansible/plugins/modules` which is one of the default module library paths.

### Manual installation
Just clone the *ansible-aur* repository into your user custom-module directory:
```
git clone https://github.com/kewlfft/ansible-aur.git ~/.ansible/plugins/modules/aur
```

### Ansible Galaxy
*ansible-aur* is available in Galaxy which is a hub for sharing Ansible content. To download it, use:
```
ansible-galaxy install kewlfft.aur
```

Note: If this module is installed from Ansible Galaxy, you will need to list it explicitly in your playbook:
```
# playbook.yml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
  - kewlfft.aur
  tasks:
  - aur: name=package_name
```

or in your role:
```
# meta/main.yml
dependencies:
- kewlfft.aur
```

```
# tasks/main.yml
- aur: name=package_name
```

## Usage
### Notes
* The scope of this module is installation and update from the AUR; for package removal or for updates from the repositories, it is recommended to use the official *pacman* module.
* The *--needed* parameter of the helper is systematically used, it means if a package is up-to-date, it is not built and reinstalled.

### Create the "aur_builder" user
While Ansible expects to SSH as root, makepkg or AUR helpers do not allow executing operations as root, they fail with "you cannot perform this operation as root". It is therefore recommended to create a user, which is non-root but has no need for password with pacman in sudoers, let's call it *aur_builder*.

This user can be created in an Ansible task with the following actions:
```
- user:
    name: aur_builder
    group: wheel
- lineinfile:
    path: /etc/sudoers.d/11-install-aur_builder
    line: 'aur_builder ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/pacman'
    create: yes
    validate: 'visudo -cf %s'
```

### Examples
Use it in a task, as in the following examples:
```
# Install trizen using makepkg, skip if it is already installed
- aur: name=trizen use=makepkg state=present
  become: yes
  become_user: aur_builder

# Install package_name using the first known helper found
- aur: name=package_name
  become: yes
  become_user: aur_builder

# Install package_name_1 and package_name_2 using paru
- aur:
    use: paru
    name:
      - package_name_1
      - package_name_2

# Upgrade the system using paru, only act on AUR packages.
# Note: Dependency resolving will still include repository packages.
- aur: upgrade=yes use=paru aur_only=yes

# Install gnome-shell-extension-caffeine-git using pikaur and a local PKGBUILD.
# Skip if it is already installed
- aur:
    name: gnome-shell-extension-caffeine-git
    use: pikaur
    local_pkgbuild: {{ role_path }}/files/gnome-shell-extension-caffeine-git
    state: present
  become: yes
  become_user: aur_builder
```
